Asking the Right Questions.
The first step in any process is to define
what it is you are trying to tackle.
What is the problem that
needs to be addressed, or
the opportunity that
needs to be ascertained.
Without this,
you won't have a clear goal in mind, or
know when you've solved your problem.
An example question is,
how can sales figures and
call center logs be combined
to evaluate a new product,
or in a manufacturing process,
how can data from multiple
sensors in an instrument be used
to detect instrument failure?
How can we understand our customers and
market better to achieve
effective target marketing?
Next you need to assess the situation
with respect to the problem or
the opportunity you have defined.
This is a step where you need to
exercise caution analyzing risks,
costs, benefits, contingencies,
regulations, resources and
requirements of the situation.
What are the requirements of the problem?
What are the assumptions and constraints?
What resources are available?
This is in terms of both personnel and
capital,
such as computer systems, instruments etc.
What are the main costs
associated with this project?
What are the potential benefits?
What risks are there in
pursuing the project?
What are the contingencies to
potential risks, and so on?
Answers to these questions will help you
get a better overview of the situation.
And better understanding of
what the project involves.
Then you need to define your goals and
objectives,
based on the answers to these questions.
Defining success criteria
is also very important.
What do you hope to achieve
by the end of this project?
Having clear goals and and
success criteria will help you to assess
the project throughout its life cycle.
Once you know the problem you want to
address and understand the constraints and
goals, then you can formulate
the plan to come up with the answer,
that is the solution to
your business problem.
As a summary, defining the questions
you're looking to find answers for
is a huge factor contributing to
the success of a data science project.
By following the explained set of steps,
you can formulate better questions
to solve using analytical skills and
link them to business value.